---
layout: post
title: Week 1
---


## Open Source

When I hear the term open source, I think about a place where anyone is able to contribute. 

### Benefits 
Open source can be beneficial as it is widely accessible, which allows software to be scaled at a fast pace. Given the amount of transparency in open source, an individual is able to see the discussions on how a community develops and access to an entire database. 

### Drawbacks 
However, open source software also has its drawbacks. People might use open source software to build projects that may negatively impact the community. As a result, misuing open source code. While open source boasts transparency, there may be a high barrier to entry. With a large community contributing to code, beginners might be unaware of the nuances or practices when contributing to open source code. 

### Why join open source? 
I'm personally curious about how an individual like me can contribute to open source. I believe being a small piece of a larger whole would be interesting to see. Being a beginner, this class would be a great opportunity to learn from engineers around the world and understand code better. 

## Projects 

### React 
React puzzled me at first. I didn't understand why a new version of javascript was needed to create front-end UI. However, being one of the more popular languages for app building, I realized the ease of component based structures, similar to lego-blocks, which would eventually create a large app. 

### VS Code
I use VS Code regularly to code up projects. I like how there are different plugins and add-ons coded up by other engineers to change the themes on VS Code or even improve the readibility of my code. 

### Wordpress
I guess Wordpress is my very first interaction with open source without me knowing. I used to blog when I was really young and liked the idea of adding widgets to my website such as games or a clock. I would search wordpress widgets online and plugged the code into my website. While it was simple, being exposed to simple plugins and themes is pretty nostalgic to look back on. 

### Blender 
I've only used blender a few times to play around with creating 3D computer graphics. However, I think its pretty interesting how there are very advanced brushes and animation support to add once you get more in-depth into creating 3D graphics. 


