---
layout: post
title: Week 4
---

## Group work for all-luv 
<!--more-->


<!-- Make your blog post for the week
comment about your group work on the browser extension
describe your own contributions to your team's efforts of building your browser extension
comment on new things you learned (tools, features of tools that you were not familiar with, etc) or learned about yourself (skills you realized you have, team work preferences and style, etc.)
comment on other teams presentations and their projects -->

### My own contributions to the team's efforts 
For the all-luv project, I set up my team's repo, pulled inspiration from plugins we tried and were inspired by and segmented do-able tasks for each member. I looked at the open source code from the github repo we were inspired by and used it as a reference for structuring our code. For example having a song, images, and popup file, and setting up manifest.json file and uploading the respective images and song file. 

I converted an mp4 file to .ogg file so it would be compatible with our Firefox browser as well as created the heartshape icon in Figma and uploaded the different dimensions of the icon to our images file. 

Apart from setting up the manifest.json file, I created the mocks and flow for what the Firefox extension would look like and created and styled the pop up button in css.

We realized at the beginning of the process, the person who set up the git repo has to give access to all other members and can't push to the main branch if they do not have access. Hence, I had to promptly add my teammates to the repo.
During the process, I also helped Alex debug an issue we were facing - getting the popup to appear in the browser. 


### Things I learned 
With this project, I learnt the importance of structuring a github repo, increased my confidence in building a firefox extension despite it being my first time. I realized it is better to overcommunicate rather than undercommunicate with a team especially when we're working asynchronously. This was especially helpful when we ran into issues and had to debug code. 

Other things I learnt was to be transparent about my strengths and weaknesses, so my teammates have an understanding of my coding skills and can guide me when I'm struggling, and vice versa. 

### Other presentations I liked 
I really enjoyed watching everyone present their Firefox add-ons projects and it was reassuring to hear about the bugs and struggles other teams faced working with their teams and implementing a Firefox extension for the first time. 

A few of my favourites are: 
1. YouTubeEX 
- The idea behind creating a non-distracting YouTube really appeals to me and I like how everything else is blank, which makes users focus on the video. 

2. Less Ugly Brightspace 
- Creating a dark theme for Brightspace. I thought team members justified having a dark theme Brightspace really well with the benefits of dark themes that don't hurt your eyes and allows users to focus better. Additionally using the Google Material I/O color palette was something interesting to see. 

3. Searchionary 
- I could see why Searchionary is useful and definetly see myself using it. Although it is a simple concept, I find myself finding the definition of words often and it would be lovely to have a plugin to define words while I'm reading online. 