---
layout: post
title: Week 7
---

## Reflection on The Cathedral and the Bazaar, open source in global affairs, finding an open source project to contribute to + what I'm trying to achieve

<!--more-->

### Reflection on The Cathedral and the Bazaar
I quite enjoyed reading about the inner workings of creating a project to work on and working with different stakeholders on a project in The Cathedral and the Bazaar. In our class discussion, two poignant contributions stood out to me.

1. Letting go of your babies
- Lev gave an example about how he was working with a Discord bot to weed out phishing links and was diligient about hardcoding each word. Upon getting the suggestion of using regex, he was quite repellent and wished to continue hardcoding. However, in hindsight he realized that regex was far more useful and would have been much easier to use, and rewriting it would be useful. 

2. Treating your users as co-developers
- Victoria gave an example on how she was finding a budgeting application for her own personal use and after reading a bunch of reviews about which would be useful. She found an open source application that suited best to her needs. Additionally, she realized in the app store reviews, users of the application would often complain or write feedback and the developer creating the application would respond to the review and implement features based off on feedback. I thought this was particularly interesting to see how developers meld their interest in building and tailoring their project's needs to users. As a result, creating useful products for users. 



### Open source in global affairs
In our discussion about open source used in global affairs, 


#### Finding an open source project to contribute to
There were a few topics I had in mind when finding an open source project to contribute to. Something that was related to UX design, finding a project that was either javascript or python specific, and potentially a project that improved web accessibility online. I spent a few hours googling and searching tags on github such as 'ux', 'a11y', 'accessibility', 'good-first-issue' and realized there weren't that many projects after filtering down on how active the repositories were and if the issues seem approachable. While there were quite a few repos that helped beginners find good-first-issues to contribute to, majority of them seemed to be slightly outdated and main contributors were inactive. An interesting open source project I found was by the California government that were implementing a cohesive design system for California states to adopt for relief efforts. They are a working organization and seeing the active chats on github on what their working on for disaster relief as well as COVID-19 updates has been interesting to see from a product perspective. 




### What I'm trying to achieve
In the next few weeks as I embark on group project work, I hope to work on an open source project that is pretty active and have the opportunity to code more in python and javascript. Both languages are somewhat familiar to me, and both languages are something I feel comfortable coding in. From documentation, design to code, I hope I'd be able to contribute in these areas in open source projects.
