---
layout: post
title: Week 8
---

## Reflection on guest speaker Tom Callaway and start of group project! 
<!--more-->

### Reflection on guest speaker Tom Callaway
Tom Callaway's experience at Red Hat and AWS and his contribution to the open source community felt very brief and quick. Given decades of experience, I enjoyed listening to success stories and what his role entails as an evangelist (more like strategist) for open source projects within the community. For example, Callaway shared about a project called battlefish, which allowed PostGres to speak SQL, and users would not have to manually convert all PostGres queries to SQL. The impact of AWS picking up a project enabled more resources going into user research towards developers using this product and helped increased battlefish's initial fluency of 87%. 

A key takeaway from Callaway's talk was his emphasis on people skills and building a relationship with contributors online. From past experiences of open source contributors shutting down a repository to prevent AWS developers to work on, and working with companies that might have dependencies such as a 20 year plan, Callaway highlighted that a weakness of open source is that it is built by people. He remarked that since people have opinions, they may not always behave rationally and can cause a miscommunication or resistance from contributors working on open source projects. 


### Start of group project 
Reading through evaluations and finalizing a project was slightly challenging for my group. We shortlisted a few projects we would like to work on and started to realize that some repositories were not super active or had issues that were not beginner friendly despite being marked beginner friendly. However, after a bit more searching around, we decided to pick the California government's design system a project that I evaluated!! One of my team members is from California and is quite excited to contribute and I'm excited about the design and accessibility aspects of contributing to a design system. 

We identified that the repo was very active and reached out through the issues page to contributors since they did not have a public chat open. We were able to get a reply from the technical lead and design lead of the project and will be meeting with the team this coming week to discuss more about any issues that could be good to contribute to. 