---
layout: post
title: Week 3
---

## Jim Hall talk and Git Acvitivity reflections
<!--more-->

This week we had a guest speaker, Jim Hall, a long-time contributor to open source and a main contributor to the FREEDOS project. First introducing us to other operating systems such as the evolution of Microsoft's operating system, I thought it was interesting to hear the longevity of FREEDOS and even how there are people whom use old reclaimed IBM computers and run FREEDOS with it. 

### Making open source accessible
The part I found most interesting about the talk was how Hall talked about opportunities for improvement within FREEDOS and open source community. Incorporating more of a design and research approach, he mentioned about finding time to incorprate usability studies would be helpful to see how different stakeholders interact with software. 

### The trajectory of open source
Though the open source community initially started out cloning a bunch of software that was private, Hall mentioned private companies have actually adopted more open source software models. 

<hr /> 

## Git Activity 
I thought the git activity we did in class was the most helpful git exercise I've done to date. Most of my exposure to git has been through group work classes and learning the very simple commands such as pull, commit, push. However, I thought the in-class step by step tutorial was helpful in learning why each step exists, and the benefits of why we use git.

Despite working with GIT for the past year, I learnt new commands during the git activity such as 
adding one file instead of all files when calling 'git add'. As well as 'git log' to see the log of commits. I'm excited to incorporate these commands to my workflow and add to my knowledge of git! 

<hr /> 

## Contributions to open source
This week, I decided to contribute to Eva Chen's wikiepedia page. Besides some timeline formatting, I added the latest books she published as well as her education history to her wikipedia page. 
