---
layout: post
title: Week 11
---

## Open source outside of the Technology industry  + Group work project
<!--more-->

This week in class we watched videos about how open source projects are cultivated outside of the technology industry. I’ve learnt that most open source projects have the same sentiment about how to encourage participation and how open source has evolved with the film industry. 

###  Open source in the film industry 
In the conversation with Larry Gritz and Carol Payne. Carol mentioned her efforts for diversity and inclusion within the open source community at the Academy Software Foundation, which includes encourage more female contributors, seeking an asynchronous model outside of weekly zoom meetings, and easing new contributors into contributing to open source. 

For example, when they were creating a second version of Color I/O, a lot of efforts were gone into creating documentation. A bunch of users worked with engineers to write documentation from a technical standpoint, such as how the code is structured. Additionally, users of the project would write about what the software consisted of and how the code is structured so it would be best presented to a user who is looking at it for the first time. 

Apart from documentation there are also efforts into creating grants and scholarships that help educate students about how to use these open source softwares such as Blender, for students who wish to pursue a career in the media and entertainment industry. At this moment, Larry chimed in and mentioned this method of sourcing talent was more beneficial than interviewing candidates because you get to see how a contributor codes and communicates with others. I found this point interesting because while it seems like a win-win situation: Engineers able to vet engineers, and existing contributors are providing good contributions because they are passionate about the software. I find it slightly unethical that contributors are not being compensated for their work. Since Academy Software Foundation is not a non-profit organization, it seems unreasonable for active contributors to not be compensated for their work, which could deincentivize them in the future. 


### Picking up the pace 
This week, my group has been able to pick up the momentum with contributing. CAGOV is active as usual on the github and they are many issues that are reported daily on the issues page. This week I familiarized myself with the Figma file for the new color scheme CAGOV’s design lead is planning to implement. Additionally, I looked into an issue about sunsetting an old principles handbook CAGOV created and integrating any old principles into the current website. This work was slightly tedious as it required checking each page manually and looking at the user flows for both the handbook and current CAGOV design system site. However, I felt like this task was useful to further familiarize myself with the CAGOV design system.



