---
layout: post
title: Week 10
---

## Business models surrounding open source  + Group work project
<!--more-->

###  Business models surrounding open source
This week, we talked about business models surrounding open source and identified various business models that companies utilize to profit of open source. As mentioned by Tom Calloway, there was the support and service model selling subscriptions to its "premium" distribution which RedHat eventually identified that was not sustainable. 

An interesting point of conversation was how Mozilla uses advertisement partnerships as well as donations to profit off open source. For example, Yahoo making a billion dollar deal with Mozilla to have Yahoo at the top of the search bar. Additionally, loyal users of open source projects might donate to an open source project if they wish to sustain the project and contribute financially. A classmate added that 2% of net revenue of Mozilla's Foundation composes of donations. Despite playing a minor role in profits, donations are evidence that people want to support open source communities and personally benefit from open projects. 

Overall, my impression of open source has definitely changed throughout the semester. Initially thinking open source was solely for the greater good and not expensed to people, open source is profitable since the nature of projects can be very targeted and niche to a specific user group, eventually addressing user needs. 


### Getting out of my comfort zone and familiarizing myself with the code 
After contributing to some documentation about the benefits of web components and what they are, I got feedback this week from the CAGOV team that it looked good and would be sent to be published. Collaborating on a piece of writing was particularly interesting, as Aaron, the initial editor of Web Components from the CAGOV team, was well versed with building components and writes from a very technical background. I was able to simplify the concepts of web components as a segway into Aaron's description of web component, which was received pretty well from the team. 

A contribution I worked on this week was playing around with animations and interactions of web components. Although I was suppose to work on a design ticket, I wanted to venture out of my comfort zone and play around with coding animations on the web. Since Alex, my groupmate, had worked on a component in the repo, I nudged him for help in navigating the files and finding a particular component. After some troubleshooting, I was able to play around with a few examples and submitted a hover interaction on card components to make it more obvious to users a card is clickable. Being able to mesh my design and coding background, I found it personally exciting to play around with animations on the web. 



