---
layout: post
title: Week 2
---

## Part 1 

### The benefits of having a code of conduct document 
A Code of Conduct document is to essentially align everyone on the same values and expectations when contributing to a project. The benefit of this is to provide a welcoming environment for beginners or a friendly reminder to pre-existing contributers on standard practices and behaviors to uphold within a community. I do think that other projects would benefit from having a Code of Conduct document as it serves as a good starting point for beginners who are new to a community as well as a guide for project maintainers to come back to if there might be any conflicts of interest between members. 

### Differences between Code of Conduct document for Go and the contributor covenant 
* The contributor covenant has a section dedicated to enforcement where as the Code of Conduct document for Go does not. The Go project may have excluded it may have wanted to prevent a hierarchical or exclusionary approach, in which people decide whether a participant is able to continue participating. Instead the Go community hopes for members to resolve conflict individually. 

* The Code of Conduct document for Go has a dedicated section titled "Gopher values" which highlights specific behaviors and values for Gophers to uphold, whereas the contributor covenant does not. The Go community may have done this to emphasize on key values for Gophers to maintain when contributing and having the opportunity to elaborate on specific behaviors that are not tolerable and encouraging more respectful behavior. 

## Part 2
The code of conduct document for the Sugar Labs Project is based off the Ubuntu Code of Conduct 

### Differences between Code of Conduct document for Go and Code of Conduct document for Sugar Labs 
* Encouraging questions at Sugar Labs 
There is an enforcement from the Sugar Labs project that members should ask when they are unsure about something. While not explicitly stated in the Go document. Having this point sets the tone for contributors at Sugar Labs to expect questions from others and help each other out. 

* Sugar Labs does not have a section for responsibilities, scope, and pledge. 
Sugar Labs focusses more on values and giving a summary of cultivating a cooperative community at Sugar Labs as the product is aimed towards children to "explore, learn, teach and reflect". 

## Part 3 
### Spicetify 
I was google open source projects that were Spotify related and chanced upon this one which seemed pretty cool. It's a Command line interface tool to customize Spotify. For example you could change the theme of your Spotify App. It's code of conduct is more informal and listed on a discord server. You can find the link to join the discord [here](https://discord.gg/VnevqPp2Rr) and go the "rules-and-info" channel to see the code of conduct. 


Spictify's code of conduct is much less structured and less dense as compared to Go's Community Code of Conduct. Since it is on Discord, it is more informal and states explicit dos and dont's of respectful Discord behavior such as "Do not ping the Mods or Admins unless they are needed." Whereas Go's Code of Conduct states multiple values and encourages contributors to resolve conflict among themselves. 


## Reflection on add-on project 
Toying around with beastify and borderify was really fun. While they were simple plug-ins I felt the tutorials were easy to follow and doing them alongside with my groupmates was productive and encouraging. There were moments in time we had hiccups such as not recognizing the jpeg file, and leaning in and asking for help from partners in-person was very helpful. 

Although we have not confirmed on our plug-in. Our group has a rough idea of a plugin and am excited to see it come into fruition. 