---
layout: post
title: Week 12
---

## Reflections on other groups work and my group's and my individual progress 
<!--more-->


###  My thoughts on Open Library + other projects in general 
This week in class we had brief presentations and progress updates on how each group was doing. The presentations that stood out to me were the ones that were able to engage with their open source project community. For example Open Library, their group called themselves MCC made up of (Michelle, Chloe and Crystal) which was a cute touch. I recall overhearing they had trouble in the first few weeks as Open Library's Zoom meeting times clashed with our current class times. These hindered progress and prevented their group from building rapport with the current Open Library team. However, in their progress update they mentioned they were able to meet with the team as well as have an engaging member to send recordings and tutorials on how to approach issues. Open Library's progress stood out to me the most as they narrated the hiccups they went through clearly. For example, an individual who was working on a current issue had written the code and was ready to push, but someone else in the Open Library project had already submitted an edit minutes before, which resulted in redundancy. I realized that this problem occured in a few other groups as well. Additionally, I realized the amount of ramp up time to contribute to an open source project can be relatively difficult. Many groups had face issues with installing specific to their computer and understanding or waiting for the tests to run, which slowed down their progress. Listening to other's mention about the hiccups they encountered was reassuring, but also reminded me of the flaws of open source projects - the high barrier of entry for beginners. Without someone to guide new users along or clear documentation to help contributors navigating their way through the codebase, it can seem overwhelming to new contributors. 


### Tidying up issues 
This week, my group has chosen to tidy up the last bit of issues we set out to do as well as work on our presentations. Initially I was tasked to find explorations for links and buttons that were not accessible. Throughout the project's past few weeks I was able to read into accessibility documents such as WCAG to understand why WCAG exists and how it has evolved. During my individual explorations and other contributons, I realized color plays a vital role in accessibility for users with low vision and users whom are colorblind. Designing and pairing colors for a button might seem fun from a design perspective, but this issue has taught me that more automated accessibility checks should be put in place when designing before handoff to engineers. 



