---
layout: post
title: Week 9
---

## Group work project
<!--more-->

### Installation
On Cagov's read me there were pretty simple set up instructions that required us to install an npm packaging and run the development. This took a little bit of trouble shooting, but one of our members were able to find the solve and we got to inspecting the code! 


### Meeting with Cagov Team
This Friday, our team met up with the engineering lead and visual design lead, Aaron and Kimberly of the Cagov team. After introductions of our background, we dived straight into tickets and how to look through the code when working on issues. Upon mentioning wanting to contribute to the accessibility and design aspect of the project, Kimberley gave us a walk through of the new color system she was working on introducing to the Cagov site to be more accessible on light and dark backgrounds. She introduced a whole palette with different lumniance that would be easier to use when thinking about pairing colors for components. For example colors with low luminance of 100 to 300 would not work well on a light background. Additionally, I learnt about new terms such as 'WCAG', which I have been reading into and excited to start working on exploring accessible color combinations for components once I have access to the figma file. 

Meeting the CAGOV team was a great start in understanding their work processes and establishing a clear channel of communication when running into questions or bugs. I'm slightly surprised we're able to work remotely online with a government organization and hopefully be able to see our work being published. 

This weekend I will be working on a documentation issue and exploring options in the figma file for more accessible components. 



