---
layout: post
title: Week 14
---

## Reflections on presentations + wrap up! 
<!--more-->


###  Spicetify
Last week in class we had the last Oppia team present, the second Blender group present, and the Spicetify group present. 

The project that stood out to me the most was Spicetify, which was an open source project that would change up the Spotify theme. The Spicetify group had created a gradient theme for the components that had shades of pink, and the most significant change was moving the media player from the bottom to the right. As a result, the Spicetify group made the executive decision to get rid of friend activity, with the reasoning that individuals do not want to see their friends listening activity on Spotify. I really enjoyed Spicetify's presentation as it was very different from what the other groups were doing and they mentioned that none of the team members were designers and had to make a unique theme for it to be published and accepted by the Spicetify team. I did find it hard to grapple with the colors chosen as it did not seem accessible to users that might have low vision with the color contrast between the cards and the background not being visible enough. 

A technical problem that piqued my interest was that when you changed the CSS color of one component or one section of the code, it would eventually affect another portion of the application and make it impossible to make out. For example, they changed a CSS color in the code which resulted in the play button to not be visible and it looked like a circle in the media player. Familiarizing themselves with sections of the code must not have been an easy feat, and definitely is really cool to see how they overcame that challenge and published a Spotify theme. 

### Last day of Open Source! 
This class was thoroughly enjoyable for me and definitely had a different structure to all the other CS classes I have taken. I personally think it is vital to have more discussions and guest speakers in CS classes so as to expose students to how they can apply their code to the world. I was lucky to find an open source project that was receptive and responsive to my questions and help, and am glad that I was able to gain experience working on an ever evolving design system. 