---
layout: post
title: Week 13
---

## Reflections on presentations + Chat with Riju
<!--more-->


###  Team Oppia + Team Open Library 
This week in class we had one of the Oppia teams present, the Open Library team present as well as my team. During the presentations each team deep dived into individual contributions and learnings from their own project. There were a mixed bag of emotions towards people's own projects, with Team Oppia feeling frustrated about long installation processes and lack of ability to speak to people within the Oppia project versus having someone on Open Library send videos tutorials of how to approach tickets and someone actively sending tickets to Team Open Library's group to work on. I thought sharing these perspectives were interesting to see the varying degrees the open source community can be participatory versus not. Despite Team Oppia mentioning that there were multiple easy to pick up issues to work on, they mentioned the tedious processes of waiting for tests to run as well as working with a relative old tech stack, which increased complexity in understanding code. Both teams agreed that reaching out early and often (on all platforms/means of communication) is a great start in asking for help. However, Team Oppia had some great takeaways for troubleshooting with open source projects such as starting with taking a look at merged PRs for similar issues for reference, I thought this point was great as by doing so can help give similar context on how to approach a problem as well as a better understanding of how the code works without having someone to troubleshoot it for you.


### Chat with Riju 
Earlier this week, Riju came to speak to us about her experience contributing to open source project while being in school and at work, starting out in open source and benefits of working on open source projects. 

Riju got her start in the open source community when she started contributing to Fedora. She mentioned pairing up with a mentor was a pivotal moment in getting her first pull request in. Throughout the time she was working with a mentor, she was interacting with people around the world and wass an active contributor of Fedora, keeping up with documentation and the codebase since the codebase changed frequently. It was reassuring to hear the difficulty of contributing to open source without a supportive community or individual to help. However she did highlight ways in getting mentors or seeking help from other contributors. She mentioned something along the lines of "the reward you get out is the effort you put in". When facing a bug, Riju would document on Github issues the methods she has tried to troubleshoot and linking other tickets she has referred to to seek out help. She shared that this method helps contributors understand an individual's commitment to wanting to contribute and existing contributors are more likely to help. 

Another takeaway from her talk was the benefits of working on open source projects. Riju mentioned that being involved in the open source community has added credibility to her resume, which enabled her to initiate new projects at her company as well as switch teams when she wanted to given her expertise. 


