---
layout: post
title: Week 5
---

## Project Evaluation and Open Source Reflections 


<!--more-->

### Project Evaluation Activity 
My group looked at an open source project called fontview. It was an application that allow users to preview all types of fonts and supported all file types for fonts. I felt the guiding questions were really helpful in understanding whether an open source project would be worth contributing such as the open issues, and have contributors been responsive to the code. 

### Good things I learned about the project 
Contributors are relatively honest in threads. The most recent thread that was active was 2019 despite some people commenting about issues in 2020. I noticed one of the threads in the issues, a contributor was very direct about not having enough time to help new contributors out and should look for someone that is skilled in C, but doesn't give any pointers anywhere else. 

Having a documentation of pre-existing discussions was interesting to look at and gave me an indicator that this open source project could be difficult to contribute to. 

However, for contributors that are more skilled in C and are able to articulate the issues it may be a project that is challenging and worth taking up. 


### Bad things I learned about the project
There is a high barrier to entry regarding technical skills required as well as no code of covenant or community guidelines. While noted as an open source project, there does not seem to be a welcoming community that is responsive and directs new contributors to issues. 

### Concluding thoughts on open source project evaluation 
After listening to other groups' evaluations, I was quite surprised that there are very active open source community groups with pull requests being submitted the day of or even minutes ago. Hearing those evaluations, it was a clear strike for the project my team evaluated as fontview seemed to be relatively dead. I'm looking forward to perusing existing projects that are friendly to beginners and find a supportive, online community to ask questions while building a project. 

## Open Source Reflections 
After watching the redhat videos of different open source projects. I realized a large majority of them rely on community driven efforts to gather data. Open source collection data is seen as beneficial and empowering, but might need a large collection for data to be aggregated, and accurate predictions to occur. 

### Cracking the Textbook
An open source project that stood out to me was cracking the textbook. This open source software reminded me of the time I had to buy 10 books for my Cultures and Context class which accumulated to about $200 for a semester. I resorted to borrowing 8 of the books from Bobst and asking friends if they had a copy I could borrow. 

Seeing Openstax, an open source publication that publishes textbooks supporting multimedia texts to teach children in an interactive way was particularly intriguing. It was empowering to see students advocating for Openstax textbooks by approaching teachers to create open source textbooks and reduce the price of education at college. 

### Public Lab 
Another open source project I was intrigued by was the capturing of Ghost stream of the Gowanus Canal. Using a simple aerial photograph kit made of a large balloon, cut up plastic bottle, recycled telephone wires and electric wires, citizens were canoeing and walking along beached to take periodic images of the city and Gowanus Canal - similar to a mini city satellite image. 

After collating all the images, Public Lab discovered an unknown, large freshwater stream and expanded the EPA's restoration efforts at the Gowanus Canals. This unknown freshwater stream is also considered a ghost stream. Seeing how simple the hardware can be for users to try it out themselves, I thought the aerial photography kits is a great way for citizens to participate in making new discoveries while employing citizens to enact regulatory changes in their own city. 