---
layout: post
title: Week 6
---

## Reflection on Guest Lecturer Chistopher Snider + role that open source efforts play in communities


<!--more-->

### Guest Lecturer Christopher Snider
On Tuesday, we had Christopher Snider speak to us about his journey into joining Tidepool and his personal experiences with diabetes. During the session, he mentioned there were 42 factors that affect your blood glucose, and despite eating the same thing for breakfast everyday, no 2 days are the same. As a result, exterior factors can affect a person's blood glucose level. He shared with us he had a lot of anger throughout his college days as he couldn't have a very spontaneous lifestyle with diabetes and had to be conscious of his blood sugar levels before doing daily activities such as walking a dog or going out with friends. 

I thought it was interesting that he has found a community online with diabetes. From starting a blog and podcast about diabetes, he met his wife who also had diabetes and soon the founder of Tidepool. 

Additionally, he shared about how healthcare and medical companies are turning towards Tidepool which may have a smaller set of features to track blood glucose levels instead of using expensive private tools for patients. This was especially interesting when we discussed about it more in our next class as using public software for healthcare purposes presents an interesting proposition for less developing countries that may not be able to afford these resources. 

While diabetes may just be restricted to one health condition, Tidepool does a great job in increasing transparency and helping adjacent communities. For example, their open source notes documented with every question and answer given to the FDA has given an opportunity for companies outside of the diabetes space to understand regulations implemented by the FDA. This is beneficial to all parties that may be unsure of specific regulations or changes in regulations by the FDA. 


### The role of open source efforts in communities
During our discussion about the different open source projects available. The main highlights of the conversation were cracking the textbook and the farming for the future. 

#### Cracking the Textbook 
An open source project in which textbooks created by professors are more interactive and updated. It was not surprising that most students expressed the exorbitant costs of textbooks used at school. However, it was surprising that none of us in class knew about openstax (the open source project for textbooks). Many of us agreed in unison about the benefits of having an open source textbook, but recognize there is a high barrier for professors as they may not receive much royaltys for the textbook with or without it being open source or not. 

### Farming for the Future
We discussed about how this could be an exciting opportunity for children to be exposed to computer science education. Having more accessible topics such as farming, students are introduced to robotics but also learn about biodiversity. 

